# Blog Entry 2
##### 12/19/2021

Since the last blog ive made, a lot has happened and a lot has changed. The biggest change I have made is that I changed the tool I will use to make the video game. I used to tinker and use melon.js but I felt like there was a lack of documentation, videos about it and a lack of trust(which I had with melon) thus leading me to use [Phaser](https://phaser.io/learn). With Phaser I have had a fun time going through the easy to follow start up guide and various videos on youtube to load sprites, start a canvas and how to start creating a javascript game. But before I was able to commence I had to copy and paste 2 pieces of js code to be able to use phaser in my files which were located in my ide at the time. After that the tutorial advised me to use something other than an ide so I decided to use [visual studio code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/?dv=win) as I had some knowledge on how to use it and the capabilities it had with the various extensions that could be added to vs code. With all of this I was able to load the beginning "game" that phaser provided and it worked perfectly but I felt like I needed to learn a little bit more about javascript and how it could be used for an actual game. I quickly went to old javascript games I had made with p5js and started taking notes on what I did and how it worked as it could help me in the future whilst I tackle on my pollution videogame. I am also playing around with various components that make a game like velocity, gravity  direction and shapes as they will be vital in my future creations.
<br>
<br>
# EDP
I would say that I am on step 3 of the edp as I need to brainstorm various important pieces of my project and I still need to brainstorm how exactly the game willl play out. I still dont feel like I am on level 4 as I feel like I need to do a little bit more research but I feel ready to start coding a project with everything I have studied. I will need more knowledg on my tool and end goal before I can start brainstorming about different actions to take. 

# Skills 
The 2 kills that I feel I have strenghthened since the last blog would be very vtal towards the project and final goal as a whole. One skill that I feel strenghtheed is my descion making as I had to make a pivital descion on whether I stay with the complicated situation of melon js that had confusing documentation and little to no videos on it, or if I should switch to haser which had a mre user friendly learning path with various youtube videos to help beginers. This could help me in he future when i would have to make life changing descions in bouth edcational fields and in personal fields. Another skill I have strehtned snce the last blog is my learning skills/ my ablity to adapt as i had to quickly adapt to the new field and feel of phaser as it would nw be the bulding block of my project and it was very different than melon but i was still able to adapt and use phaser to learn and get a feel of it. This would gratly help me in the future as everyone will have to adapt to a new life, place, job and maybe even new family/friends as life goes on.

[Previous](entry01.md) | [Next](entry03.md)

[Home](../README.md)
